---
layout: post
title: quiz1
---
#Quiz 1
## Question 1
1) Please expand each of the following acronyms (1 pt each):
### Answer
**1.1) IRC** Internet Relay Chat
**1.2) FOSS** Free and Open Source Software
**1.3) OLPC** One Laptop Per Child
**1.4) FSF** Free Software Foundation
**1.5) PR** Pull Request
Bonus: Give the expansion for the acronym GNU. (1pt)
**GNU**'s Not Unix
## Question 2
2) What is the name of the version control system we use in this course? (1 pt)
Bonus: Give the name for another version control system. (1pt)
### Answer
We use git for version control in the HFOSS course. Another version control system, which we don't use, is SVN.
## Question 3
3) Please give the one-word name for the interface used in the OLPC computers & our VMs? (1 pt)
### Answer
The interface used on the OLPC computers is called Sugar.
## Question 4
4) Bonus: What is the short, two-letter name for the OLPC computers used in the final project for this class? (1 pt)
### Answer
They are called XO.
## Question 5
5) We refer to sites that host source code as "forges". What is the name of the primary forge used in this course? (1 pt)
### Answer
The main forge used in this class is Github.
## Question 6
6) Bonus: Name the other forge we have used? (1pt)
### Answer
The other forge we have used in this class is Gitlab.
## Question 7
7) Bonus: Name another forge, one we have not used for this course. (1pt)
### Answer
A forge we haven't used in this class is Bitbucket.
## Question 8
8) The GitHub-specific term to describe the process in which, starting from one repository hosted at GitHub, one creates another repository, also hosted at GitHub, but under the control of a different user account.
a) repository b) branch c) remote d) fork e) clone
### Answer
The answer to this question is **D)** fork.
##Question 9
9) A collection of related commit objects
a) repository b) branch c) remote d) fork e) clone
### Answer
The answer to this question is **A)** repositroy.
## Question 10
10) A separate, but related, repository from which one may fetch or pull changes into one's own working copy, and to which in some instances one might have permission to push changes from one's own working copy.
a) repository b) branch c) remote d) fork e) clone
### Answer
The answer to this question is **C)** remote.
## Question 11
11) The general term in git for making an exact, working copy of another repository in which changes can be tracked separately between the two versions.
a) repository b) branch c) remote d) fork e) clone
### Answer
The answer to this question is **E)** clone.
## Question 12
12) A namespace in which one can track changes to a set of files within a given repository. This term applies both to the action and to the result of the action. Comparisons ('diffs' or patches) can be made between different such namespaces.
a) repository b) branch c) remote d) fork e) clone
### Answer
The answer to this question is **B)** branch.
## Quewstion 13
13) Consider the following (+1 for each correct, -1 for each incorrect):
### Answer
a) e59b627
b) 451.867
c) cf153fb32
d) dca_079
e) 9539807
f) DB6A60A
g) 614@1d4
h) be34fb47c60d
List which of these could be a valid commit identifier?
### Answer
The answer to this question is **B)** branch.
## Question 14
14) We've discussed "the four R's" as a shorthand for the freedoms attached to software for it to be considered "free" or "open source". List or describe each. (eg, if you can remember the "r" word you can just give that. If you cannot remember the term, but can describe the freedom involved, that also counts). Various "r" words are roughly synonymous for some of the freedoms, but we're counting freedoms here, not synonyms so if you give two (or more) terms for the same freedom, it only counts once. For the purposes of this quiz, "remix" does not count as describing any of them. (1pt each)
### Answer
10.1) Read
10.2) Revise 
10.3) Reuse
10.4) Redistribute