---
layout: post
title: bugfix
---
# Sugarizer bugfix
For my bugfix assignment, I was pointed to an error in the README.md file for the [Sugarizer](https://github.com/llaske/sugarizer) application by my wonderful professor. The issue with the Sugarizer README was pretty simple. In Markdown, some number of octothorpe (#) at the beginning of a line denotes a header. If there is no space between the octothorpe and the header title, the text will not be emboldened. You can see an example of the issue below.

##this is supposed to be a header

## Method
The first step in the process for me in fixing this bug was creating an [issue](https://github.com/llaske/sugarizer/issues/199) in the github repo for the project. In the issue, I explained what the issue was as clearly as i possibly could, essentially saying exactly what I did in the first paragraph of this blog. Once the issue was logged, I forked the repo into my own github and cloned my newly forked repo. In my local copy of the repo, I modified the broken README file so that the Markdown would show correctly. After committing and pushing my change, I created a [pull request](https://github.com/llaske/sugarizer/pull/200) stating the changes I made to fix the issue.

## Community interaction
I actually didn't end up having to communicate with anyone involved with the project for help fixing this issue. The issue was relatively simple. I did look through some of the currently open pull requests to see what the discussions are like among the contributors. They are relatively nice people, though there are only a few actively committing or commenting. Judging by the way they interacted with the other people submitting pull requests and issues, I would have no problem getting help for a more intensive project on their code base.
